# Chapter1_LocalAdaptation - replace with title and doi

This repository contains documents pertaining to the data analysis of Chapter1_LocalAdaptation.  

Below is the abstract for this manuscript: 


_How species respond to climate change will depend on the collective response of populations. Intraspecific variation in traits, evolved through genetic adaptation and phenotypic plasticity, can cause thermal performance curves to vary over species’ distributions. However, intraspecific variation within marine environments has received relatively little attention due to the belief that marine systems lack dispersal barriers strong enough to promote locally adapted traits. Here we show that intraspecific variation is present among low- and high-latitude populations of a coral reef damselfish (Acanthochromis polyacanthus). Co-gradient variation was observed when examining aerobic physiology across thermal gradient (i.e., 27°C, 28.5°C, 30°C, 31.5°C) that reflected mean summer temperatures of high- and low-latitude regions, as well as projected future ocean temperatures. However, not all traits displayed intraspecific variation; no significant differences were observed between high- and low-latitude regions when measuring immunocompetence, hematocrit, and enzyme activity. The presence of co-gradient variation suggests that dispersal limitations in marine systems can promote local adaptive responses, however, intraspecific variation may not be ubiquitous among traits. Locally adapted traits warrant consideration regarding the impact they may have on modelling population (and species) responses to climate change, identifying potential regions that may illicit sufficient adaptive response, as well as identifying the divergence or convergence traits between populations._

The most important document in the repository is titled 'DataAnalysisSummary' and can be found in the markdown_files folder. The 'DataAnalysisSummary' files are the most up to date and contain a thorough step-by-step walkthrough of the analysis that was completed for this manuscript, including data manipulation, models, model validations, results, and a summary figure, for all traits (aerobic physiology, immunocompetence, hematocrit, and enzyme activity). 'DataAnalysisSummary' can be found in three forms including, .html, .Rmd, and .md files, with all figures produced within the files also being avaliable in the 'DataAnalysisSummary_files/figure-html' folder. Within the markdown_files folder you can also find .html, .Rmd, and .md files, for each analysed trait separately, the data analysis will be the same except for the exclusion of the effect size calculation and some typos, both of which were included or amended in the file document - 'DataAnalysisSummary'. however, the files are largely the same. 

Within other folders including 'respirometry', 'immunocompetence', 'hematocrit-hemoglobin' and 'enzymes' you will find basic R scripts that were used to create the Rmarkdown files. These R scripts are somewhat unpolished versions of what can be found in the .Rmd files that are in the markdow_files folder. The .Rmd files that in the markdown_files folder are recommended over the these basic R scripts. 

The map folder contains data and various versions of maps that were created for this project. An R script (but no Rmarkdown file) is avaliable for the creation of the map. If you would like an Rmarkdown version of the map, please get in contact with me and I can try to quickly peice one together. 

The 'figures', 'supplemental_tables', 'supplemental_figures', and 'supplemental_videos' folders contain figures/tables/videos that were included in the manuscript as either figures or supplemental material. 

If you have any questions about the contents of this repository please feel free to get in touch with me via e-mail: elliott.schmidt@my.jcu.edu.au
